How to find a good balance between stocks, bonds, and crypto?
The rule of thumb advisors have traditionally urged investors to use, in terms of the percentage of stocks an investor should have in their portfolio; this equation suggests, for example, that a 30-year-old would hold 70% in stocks, 30% in bonds, while a 60-year-old would have 40% in stocks, 60% in bonds.Will It Work for Every Investor?
Now, it’s important to point out that the Oracle of Omaha didn’t say that the 90/10 split makes sense for every investor. The larger point he was trying to make was about the makeup of portfolios, not the precise allocation. His main contention was that most investors will get better returns through low-cost, low-turnover index funds, an interesting admission for someone who’s made a fortune picking individual stocks.According to Estrada’s research, the safest asset mix was actually 60% stocks and 40% bonds, which had a remarkable 0% failure rate.(Investopedia, updated by Daniel Kurt october30, 2020)

What kind of Algorithms we should create and models to do so?
https://www.forbes.com/advisor/retirement/asset-allocation-models/
Income, Balanced and Growth Asset Allocation Models
We can divide asset allocation models into three broad groups:

•  Income Portfolio: 70% to 100% in bonds.

•  Balanced Portfolio: 40% to 60% in stocks.

•  Growth Portfolio: 70% to 100% in stocks.
How can we make the consumer experience as easy and seamless using the robo chat 
feature?
STOCKS, BONDS AND CRYPTOCURRENCY
HISTORICAL GROWTH
stocks and bonds
The historical returns for stocks is between 8% – 10% since 1926. The historical returns for bonds is between 4% – 6% since 1926. Both asset classes have performed well over time. The key is figuring what combination works best for your risk tolerance and financial objectives.

The Future of Cryptocurrency
(https://time.com/nextadvisor/investing/cryptocurrency/future-of-cryptocurrency/)
We can speculate on what value cryptocurrency may have for investors in the coming months and years (and many will), but the reality is it’s still a new and speculative investment, without much history on which to base predictions. No matter what a given expert thinks or says, no one really knows. That’s why it’s important to only invest what you’re prepared to lose, and stick to more conventional investments for long-term wealth building. 

“If you were to wake one morning to find that crypto has been banned by the developed nations and it became worthless, would you be OK?” Frederick Stanield, a CFP with Lifewater Wealth Management in Atlanta, Georgia, told NextAdvisor recently. 

Keep your investments small, and never put crypto investments above any other financial goals like saving for retirement and paying off high interest debt
Investments That Provide Various Levels Of Risk & Return
Zero risk: Treasury bonds held to maturity, money market accounts, and CDs where the FDIC guarantees up to $250,000 in losses per person.

Minimal risk: The highest rated municipal bonds in your state. You can find 20-year municipal bonds yielding 4%+ federal and state tax free. AAA-rated municipal bonds have default rates under 1%. In 15.5 years, you’ll double your money. So long as you hold your municipal bond until maturity, you will get all your principal back plus the annual coupon, if the municipality doesn’t go bankrupt.
Historical Returns Of Different Stock And Bond Portfolio Weightings
Good fundamental investing is all about maximizing return while minimizing risk. To do so requires an understanding of your financial objectives and your risk tolerance. You should also understand the historical returns of different stock and bond portfolio weightings.

The historical returns for stocks is between 8% – 10% since 1926. The historical returns for bonds is between 4% – 6% since 1926. Both asset classes have performed well over time.

The key is figuring what combination works best for your risk tolerance and financial objectives.

Write out your specific financial objectives on a piece of paper or in a word document. Some common financial objectives include:

Saving enough after-tax investments for retirement
Earning 2X the 10-year treasury bond yield
Saving enough in a 529 plan to pay for your child’s college education
Having the capital to cover any long-term care costs for aging parents
Saving enough to buy a reliable and safe car
Maxing out your 401(k) every year without fail since there are no pensions anymore
How To Determine Your Risk Tolerance
To determine your risk tolerance, simply ask yourself how much you’re willing to lose in your investments before needing to sell. If you never plan to sell because you know the stocks and bonds have generally gone up and to the right for decades, perhaps you have a high risk tolerance.


If you plan to take profits if the stock market is down 20% or more, then perhaps you have a medium risk tolerance.

I’ve come up with the Financial SEER methodology to properly quantify your risk tolerance. The model is based on how many months you are willing to work to make up for potential stock market losses. The older you are, the less time you are willing to waste.

Just know that whatever you think your risk tolerance is, you’re likely overestimating your risk tolerance. When people started losing big money during the 2008-2009 financial crisis there was mass panic because they were also losing their houses and their jobs.

Then in March 2020, during the height of the coronavirus hysteria, many newbies who had never experienced a downturn before sold stocks. Knowing your risk tolerance is important. So is knowing the historical returns of different stock and bond portfolios so you better know what to expect.

Investments That Provide Various Levels Of Risk & Return
(https://www.financialsamurai.com/historical-returns-of-different-stock-bond-portfolio-weightings/)
Zero risk: Treasury bonds held to maturity, money market accounts, and CDs where the FDIC guarantees up to $250,000 in losses per person.

Minimal risk: The highest rated municipal bonds in your state. You can find 20-year municipal bonds yielding 4%+ federal and state tax free. AAA-rated municipal bonds have default rates under 1%. In 15.5 years, you’ll double your money. So long as you hold your municipal bond until maturity, you will get all your principal back plus the annual coupon, if the municipality doesn’t go bankrupt.

Municipal Bond Default Rates By Grade

Moderate risk: The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index provides about a 5% annual return each year, depending on which 10 year time frame you’re looking at. You can take more risk buying individual corporate bonds, emerging market bonds, or high yield bonds. But overall, buying the aggregate bond index is a moderately risky investment.
Higher risk: The stock market has returned anywhere from 8% – 10% a year on average, depending on the time frame you are looking at. Just like in the bond market, you can buy all sorts of different stocks with different risk profiles. But as we know, the stock market can have violent corrections. See the recent number and magnitude of corrections below in the chart.
Retirees will have a combination of different types of risk levels. The question to ask is what type of investment weightings one should have in each based on their risk profile.


There is no right answer because everybody’s risk tolerance is different. But we can start by looking at the risk / reward metrics of different types of portfolios.

Historical Returns Of Different Stock And Bond Portfolio Weightings
Below are different portfolios with various stock and bond portfolio weightings and their respective returns. From there, you can decide on the proper asset allocation of stocks and bonds.

Income-Based Portfolios
A 0% weighting in stocks and a 100% weighting in bonds has provided an average annual return of 5.4%, beating inflation by roughly 3.4% a year and twice the current risk free rate of return. In 14 years, your retirement portfolio will have doubled.
Balanced Retirement Portfolio
Source: Vanguard
Growth Based Portfolios
Growth based portfolios are for younger investors or investors who have a much higher risk tolerance. I’ve personally mostly invested in growth stocks in my 20s, 30s, and 40s. The idea was to accumulate as much capital as possible to then turn into investments that generate passive income for retirement.

A 70% weighting in stocks and a 30% weighing in bonds has provided an average annual return of 9.1%, with the worst year -30.1%. That’s a pretty steep decline.

A 80% weighting in stocks and a 20% weighing in bonds has provided an average annual return of 9.5%, with the worst year -40%.

A 100% weighting in stocks and a 0% weighing in bonds has provided an average annual return of 10.2%, with the worst year -40.1%. We saw this sell-off happen in 2008-2009 where many investors sold at the absolute bottom and took 10 years just to get back to even.

With a 100% stock allocation, there have been 25 years of losses out of 91 years, and in the worst year you would have lost 43% of your money. Losing 43% of your money is fine if you are 30 years old with 20+ years of work left in you. But not so much if your goal is to spend the rest of your days cruising around the world.
A 20% weighting in stocks and an 80% weighing in bonds has provided an average annual return of 6.6%, with the worst year -10.1%

With a 30% allocation to stocks, you could improve your investment returns by 1.8% a year to 7.2%. But with a potential improvement of 1.8% a year, you increase the magnitude of a potential loss by 75% (from -8.1% to -14.2%) based on history.